

----
Hey Dazza,

I woke up thinking about our conversation at dinner last night. Three things specifically, that I want to re-iterate.

1. The tools (data with dashboard) that the judges want and need are just as important for the participants to have. If everyone in the system is empowered with a tool that gives them a quick picture of what the data means, everyone in the experiment is on the same page, moving toward the same goal. If only the authority has the tools, it's just more surveillance.
To make it simple, have you ever used a bathroom scale to check your weight? Ultimately, what's needed is the ability to self monitor. Driving the cause of personal sovereignty has great benefits for society.

2. Peer-to-peer alignment will make this happen. If the judges truly want these tools, they will share with each other what works, best practices, etc. Within that sharing, the autonomy of the individual judge must be preserved. This is how it will spread. If  judges feel that it is a top down edict, it will be less effective. Although, legal types are certainly more amenable to rule following than some people, like all individuals they will truly align with a system that they can make their own.

3. The buy-in of the participants is just as critical to the design of the system. Participants meet with each other under supervision, but they need to own their recovery. They need to be invested in their entry. By creating tools for their autonomy within the feedback loop of their own personal data, they will strengthen individually and together. The peer to peer alignment of the participants combined with real attention to phased-in autonomy will lead to much improved self regulation. One only needs to study Alcoholics Anonymous to see peer-to-peer support with opt-in supervision leads to amazing rates of real recovery.

...

BTW, I found this piece about Ann's work that is a very succinct way to explain her pitch. It might be helpful for framing the discussion with your MediaLab colleagues.
http://www.abajournal.com/magazine/article/judge_lets_make_apps_for_ex-cons/

Thanks,
Joyce
